hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions congratulations
to Daniel my 13 years old for winning
the 2019 Raytheon Mathcounts national
competition the prize includes a twenty
thousand dollar college scholarship the
final round was a speed test competition
between my and Sue yes Lindy
it was pencil and paper only no
calculators were allowed here's the
question that sealed the victory
what is the quotient of five thousand
forty divided by the product of its
unique prime factors pause the video
right now if you'd like to give it a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for a solution
[Music]
to solve this problem we need to find
the prime factorization of 5040 since
it's an even number it's divisible by 2
since 25 20 is an even number we can
divide by 2 again and then 1260 is an
even number so we divide by 2 again 6 30
is also even so we divide by 2 again 315
is odd so we can't divide by 2 any more
times now the digits of 315 are 3 1 & 5
if we add them together we get 9
so 315 will be divisible by 9 so it will
be divisible by 3 and it will be
divisible by 3 again now 35 is equal to
5 times 7 this is the prime
factorization of 5040 we need the
quotient of this with its unique prime
factors the unique prime factors are 2 3
5 & 7 we divide both sides by 2 3 5 & 7
and we end up with the quotient of 5,000
40 bytes unique prime factors the result
will be 2 cubed times 3 and that's equal
to 24 and that's our answer it took me a
couple of minutes to do this calculation
and to be sure that I got the correct
answer but my solve this question in
only seconds congratulations again and
who knows with all the smart viewers on
mind your decisions may be the winner of
next year's math counts competition is
watching this video right now thanks for
watching and for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube thanks for watching thanks for
your support
[Music]